Tech Management Blog

three parts to digital product
value of retrofit
innovation
business debt (analogous to technical debt)
managing technology - million dollar man - what we need to do is be able to stay current and on top of tech as it quickly evolves

When worlds collide - Micro vs Macro engineering - optimization vs scalability
The Eisenhowitzer - The Eisenhower Decision Matrix
To Empower and Serve - The Role of a Manager - “it would be 18 full time jobs to keep up with what 18 people are doing as their full time job, I don’t have that time”
The Innovation Box
Tell me a story - explain why I should care and do it with a story
I can’t fail, because I won’t give up - Be persistent but not stubborn
even changing jobs shouldn’t involve quitting, it should involve a new opportunity
It’s all about the users - no one cares about your architecture or platform or whatever, just that it works well for them
Always be challenged, but don’t make things intentionally hard
Bring value not time -
Permission problem - everyone waiting for someone else to give them permission
Mind readers - no one knows the problem you don’t mention
Awkward conversations - don’t be afraid or nothing ever happens
Risk aversion - create products that eliminate pain and loss, it’s easier to sell than a benefit
Always ask why - it’s more persuasive and routes out causes
Microservices and tools - only do what you are good at
Play to strengths - outsource to someone else all of your weaknesses and enhance your strengths rather than shore up your weaknesses
Engineers are people too - please don’t call them resources, they have emotions and psychology and need to be able to win. this is why agile works
Knowledge workers are not factory workers
Lean principle - do it quickly and get it out there, let others judge your work.  it’s like being a spy, your army should always send out a recon team
Always measure - in science a measurement is worthless unless it includes it’s accuracy, in software delivering is worthless unless it includes the ability to measure the value and correctness of the solution.  hold up the release until you finish putting metrics in there to measure usage
Trust and it’s impact on morale
Applying for a job
Stay current - new problems require new solutions, you can’t use the same stuff over and over
Two kinds of differences
Two kinds of weaknesses: ones that you need to shore up, and ones that you need to turn over to someone else
Losers make excuses, winners own mistakes even the mistakes of others
Be the parent, not the child - the parent says what can and can't be done, the child listens and obeys. Most people are waiting to be told what to do. It's a permission problem
The communication matrix - keep track of people you need to communicate with
Critical to get engineers that are comfortable working without requirements documents - things change and most are not comfortable with that
Pipe economy - do one thing, do it well, allow it to interrupt
Emotional damage control-emotions matter
Abundance economy
Content with what you have
Freedom to fail
Don’t vilify the person, identify their motivations and position
Hybrid work from home - do some from home and some from the office

Block chain may be as disruptive as the web was because it removes central control just like the web removed barriers of access

The new economy has to be service based because information will be even more freely available.  You need to become a value add like the old value added reseller and provide value to troglodytes.  Don’t expect to get paid for knowing something.  Don’t expect to get paid for controlling something.

Old economy paid the controller for access.  The world wide web disrupted access to information.  As a result, encyclopedias and newspapers fell.  They couldn’t control access to information that everyone knows.  They became slow and replaced by information technology.  Information technology is epitomized in wikipedia which knows about events as they unfold and has encyclopedic knowledge of the past and state of the art.

When it comes to opinions, the world wide web gives you access to more of them than you can comprehend.  What does blockchain unlock?  Resources that were scarce are becoming abundant.  Information that was hard to find is now organized and trivial to search.  Currently it’s in centralized locations and centrally controlled.  What happens when control is decentralized and democratized?

Government is trying to hold on to identity.  They want you to know who you are talking to.  What happens when you deal with people anonymously.  What happens to meritocracy when you aren’t sure who is on the other end?  What happens when you don’t care who is on the other end?

Government used to control knowledge.  Government used to control identity.  Government used to control money.  What is left if government doesn’t control organization?

What do you work for if you don’t work for money?

Blockchain can support anonymous publicly visible messages with private contents.  The best way to send secrets.

-------

News should be the next thing on the block chain.  It ages poorly but you want some verification.

Search and blog posts should be next.  If you have an agreed upon archive of content metadata, you don’t need a central search authority and no one could censor or monitor your search.

-------

You could charge for blogs using the block chain. Let people post teasers and then have a double signed key to unlock full content.
